In this lesson we're going to talk about
the Linux directory structure where you
can find different components of the Linux
operating system, and we'll see how
applications can use the same conventions
as the Linux operating system for
their directory structure as well.
First I'd like to share with
you some of the most common top
level directories that you'll see when
using the Linux operating system.
There might be several top level
directories to be aware of,
but these first few
are the most important, and
they're the ones that you'll
interact with the most often.
The Linux directory
structure is like a tree.
The base of the Linux file system
hierarchy begins at the root.
Directories will start to branch off
the root, but everything starts at root.
The directory separator in Linux
is symbolized by a forward slash.
Most of the time we just
abbreviate this to /.
Often root is referred to as slash
since there are no other directories.
If you hear someone say, look in slash,
or, that file is in slash,
they are referring to the root directory.
Bin, or /bin, is where you'll find
binary files or executable files.
Programs are written in source code,
and this is human readable text.
These text files are then compiled
into machine readable binaries.
They are called binaries because machine
code is a string of zeros and ones.
Just know that applications that you
can run are sometimes located in /bin.
/etc or etc is where you'll
find configuration files.
Configuration files control how the
operating system or applications behave.
For example,
there's a configuration file in /etc that
tells the operating system whether to boot
into a text mode or a graphical mode.
/home is where user home directories live.
So for example,
my home directory would be /home/jason.
Linux systems can and often do have
multiple users or multiple user accounts.
And the home directory is
where you can separate
your data from another account's data.
You can store anything you want
to in your home directory.
You could store documents, or
music files, or your vacation pictures.
/opt is where optional or
third party software lives.
/opt is for software that is not
bundled with the operating system.
For example, Google Earth is not part
of the standard Linux operating system.
So Google Earth gets installed in /opt.
/tmp is call temp and
it's for temporary space.
And most Linux distributions
clear /tmp at boot time.
So if you put some files in /tmp and
the Linux server gets rebooted or
your Linux desktop gets rebooted,
your files will be gone.
Now /tmp is a great place to
store temporary files, but
do not put anything in /tmp that
you want to keep long term.
/usr is called user, and
this is where user related programs live.
Each one of these directories
can have subdirectories.
For example, we already talked
about home/home/username.
User is no different.
There will be a subdirectory
structure within user, and
you'll find binary programs and
executables located in /usr/bin, userbin.
/var also called var,
is for variable data.
Think of things that change often.
Things that change often on a Linux system
are typically log files that are generated
either by the operating system itself or
applications.
In Linux we typically
talk about directories.
In other operating systems they make
call the similar concept folders.
If you think about it in terms of folders,
then slash or
root is the main folder, and
each one of these are subfolders.
Again, folder and
directory is often used interchangeably.
In Linux, again,
we're gonna use the term directory.
Here's a graphic that illustrates
that each one of the directories
hang off of slash or start at the root.
This graphic just illustrates that each
directory can have many subdirectories.
Here's yet another way to visualize this.
And this example we can see /home/jason
as three directories: documents,
downloads and music.
Up until this point, we've only talked
about a few top level directories.
However, when you actually
get on a live Linux system,
you're going to see that there
are several other top level directories.
I want to expose you to these
other top level directories so
that you're slightly familiar
with them when you see them.
On this screen maybe the most interesting
one we see there that we haven't covered
yet is /cdrom.
And oftentimes Linux
distributions will use that
directory as what's called a mount point.
And when you insert your CD-ROM
it will get mounted on /cdrom.
So, that is where you can access
the files that are located on the CD-ROM.
Other Linux distributions use /media.
Again, this is where you could find
files that are located on CD-ROMs or
DVD's that you place inside your computer.
I've already talked about /opt.
Some Linux operating systems
use /srv as a location to
place data that is served
by the Linux server.
For example,
web files would be an /srv/www.
Or if it's an FTP server, maybe
the files would be located in /srv/ftp.
We mentioned earlier about /usr having
subdirectories, /usr/bin, /usr/lib, etc.
Let's switch gears and start talking
about application directory structures.
You'll find that some applications that
are not bundled with the Linux operating
system are installed in /usr/local/,
and often they're installed
in /usr/local/programname/.
And from there they'll have their
own subdirectory structure.
In this example,
crashplan is backup software that's not
bundled with the Linux operating system.
If you were to install it from
their website it would install into
/usr/local/crashplan, and
if you wanted to find the binary for
this program, you would look
in /usr/local/crashplan/bin.
If you wanted to configure how
the program behaves at runtime,
you would modify configuration files that
are located in /usr/local/crashplan/etc.
If you wanted to see the log files
that the program is generating, again,
look in log, /usr/local/crashplan/log.
We've already talked about how
applications can be installed in /opt.
Avg is antivirus software, it's not
bundled with the Linux operating system.
And this particular application
installs in /opt/avg.
Again, this is a common pattern,
opt, program name, bin.
Here is a slight variation that you'll
sometimes see applications follow.
Let's take this fictitious
application called myapp for example.
Even though the main myapp program gets
installed in /opt/myapp, where maybe
the binaries live and the libraries live,
you'll also see that it can
install files in /etc/opt/myapp and that's
where you'd find the configure files.
The log files would be in /var/opt/myapp.
Sometimes when applications get installed,
they're not given their
own directory structure.
They're installed in a shared manner.
So maybe myapp gets install in /usr/local.
And in this case it would
be /user/local/bin/myapp.
And the configuration file could
be /user/local/etc/myapp.com.
/usr/loc/bin would not
only contain my app but
other applications that were
installed in this shared manner.
Another common practice is to use opt
company name, or opt organization name.
For example, if you work for the Acme
Corporation and you logged onto one of
their Linux servers, you may see
something like /opt/acme/bin where
the software that was written for that
company or by that company is installed.
Another slight variation on this theme
is opt, company name, product name.
A real life example is Google.
When you install Google Chrome on Linux
it installs into /opt/google/chrome.
Earth installs to /opt/google/earth.
Here's yet another slight variation,
opt/organization name, or
opt/company/ organization name, or even
user/local/company name/organization name.
The most important thing to know about
applications that are not shipped
with the Linux operating system is
that they're typically found in /opt,
called opt or in /usr, called user.
And when these applications are installed,
they're typically installed in user local,
/usr/local.
The most common top level
directories that you'll
interact with on a Linux system are /,
also called root,
bin, etc, home, opt, tmp, usr, and var.
And applications that are not shipped
with the operating system are typically
installed in /usr/local and /opt.